docs/mutating-webhook/README.md, before:

# Mutating Webhook

The mutating admission webhook injects an executable to containers (in a very non-intrusive way) inside a Deployments/StatefulSets which than can request secrets from Vault through special environment variable definitions. The project is inspired by many, already existing projects (e.g.: `channable/vaultenv`, `hashicorp/envconsul`). The webhook checks if a container has environment variables defined in the following form, and reads the values for those variables directly from Vault during startup time:

```yaml
        env:
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          value: vault:secret/data/accounts/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
# or
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: aws-key-secret
              key: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
# or
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
            valueFrom:
              configMapKeyRef:
                name: aws-key-configmap
                key: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

The webhook checks if a container has envFrom and parse defined configmaps and secrets:

```yaml
        envFrom:
          - secretRef:
              name: aws-key-secret
# or
          - configMapRef:
              name: aws-key-configmap
```

Secret and ConfigMap examples:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: aws-key-secret
data:
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: vault:secret/data/accounts/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
type: Opaque
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: aws-key-configmap
data:
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESSKEY: vault:secret/data/accounts/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

Writing into Vault, for example getting a [dynamic database username/password pair for MySQL](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/databases/mysql-maria.html#usage):

***NOTE**: This feature takes advantage of secret caching, since we need to access the `my-role` endpoint twice, but in the background it is written only once in Vault:*

```yaml
    env:
    - name: MYSQL_USERNAME
      value: ">>vault:database/creds/my-role#username"
    - name: MYSQL_PASSWORD
      value: ">>vault:database/creds/my-role#password"
```

[Templating](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) is also supported on the secret sourced from Vault (in the key part, after the first `#`), in the very same fashion as in the Vault configuration and external configuration with all [the Sprig functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/) (this is supported only for Pods right now):

```yaml
    env:
    - name: DOCKER_USERNAME
      value: "vault:secret/data/accounts/dockerhub#My username on DockerHub is: ${title .DOCKER_USERNAME}"
```

In this case the a init-container will be injected to the given Pod which copies a small binary, called `vault-env` into an in-memory volume and mounts that Volume to all the containers which have an environment variable definition like that. It also changes the `command` of the container to run `vault-env` instead of your application directly. `vault-env` starts up, connects to Vault with (currently with the [Kubernetes Auth method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html) checks the environment variables, and that has a reference to a value stored in Vault (`vault:secret/....`) will be replaced with that value read from the Secret backend, after this `vault-env` immediately executes (with `syscall.Exec()`) your process with the given arguments, replacing itself with that process.

**With this solution none of your Secrets stored in Vault will ever land in Kubernetes Secrets, thus in etcd.**

`vault-env` was designed to work in Kubernetes at the first place, but nothing stops you to use it outside Kubernetes as well. It can be configured with the standard Vault client's [environment variables](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/#environment-variables) (because there is a standard Go Vault client underneath).

Currently the Kubernetes Service Account based Vault authentication mechanism is used by `vault-env`, so it requests a Vault token based on the Service Account of the container it is injected into. Implementation is ongoing to use [Vault Agent's Auto-Auth](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/agent/autoauth/index.html) to request tokens in an init-container with all the supported authentication mechanisms.

Kubernetes 1.12 introduced a feature called [APIServer dry-run](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/01/14/apiserver-dry-run-and-kubectl-diff/) which became beta as of 1.13. This feature requires some changes in webhooks with side effects.
Vault mutating admission webhook is `dry-run aware`.

## Deploying the webhook

### Helm chart

There is a Helm chart available to deploy the [Vault Secrets Webhook](https://github.com/banzaicloud/bank-vaults/tree/master/charts/vault-secrets-webhook).

```bash
helm init -c
helm repo add banzaicloud-stable https://kubernetes-charts.banzaicloud.com
helm upgrade --namespace vswh --install vswh banzaicloud-stable/vault-secrets-webhook
```

For further details follow the webhook's Helm chart [repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/bank-vaults/tree/master/charts/vault-secrets-webhook).

## Example

Write a secret into Vault:

```bash
vault kv put secret/valami/aws AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=s3cr3t
```

This deployment will be mutated by the webhook, since it has at least one environment variable having a value which is a reference to a path in Vault:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: vault-test
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
      annotations:
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault:8200" # optional, the address of the Vault service, default values is https://vault:8200
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default" # optional, the default value is the name of the ServiceAccount the Pod runs in, in case of Secrets and ConfigMaps it is "default"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "false" # optional, skip TLS verification of the Vault server certificate
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-tls-secret: "vault-tls" # optinal, the name of the Secret where the Vault CA cert is, if not defined it is not mounted
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-agent: "false" # optional, if true, a Vault Agent will be started to do Vault authentication, by default not needed and vault-env will do Kubernetes Service Account based Vault authentication
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes" # optional, the Kubernetes Auth mount path in Vault the default value is "kubernetes"
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: default
      containers:
      - name: alpine
        image: alpine
        command: ["sh", "-c", "echo $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY && echo going to sleep... && sleep 10000"]
        env:
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          value: vault:secret/data/valami/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

## Getting secret data from Vault and replace it in Kubernetes Secret

You can mutate secrets as well if you set annotations and define proper vault path in secret data:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: sample-secret
  annotations:
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault.default.svc.cluster.local:8200"
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default"
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "true"
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes"
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
data:
  .dockerconfigjson: eyJhdXRocyI6eyJodHRwczovL2RvY2tlci5pbyI6eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InZhdWx0OnNlY3JldC9kYXRhL2RvY2tlcnJlcG8vI0RPQ0tFUl9SRVBPX1VTRVIiLCJwYXNzd29yZCI6InZhdWx0OnNlY3JldC9kYXRhL2RvY2tlcnJlcG8vI0RPQ0tFUl9SRVBPX1BBU1NXT1JEIiwiYXV0aCI6ImRtRjFiSFE2YzJWamNtVjBMMlJoZEdFdlpHOWphMlZ5Y21Wd2J5OGpSRTlEUzBWU1gxSkZVRTlmVlZORlVqcDJZWFZzZERwelpXTnlaWFF2WkdGMFlTOWtiMk5yWlhKeVpYQnZMeU5FVDBOTFJWSmZVa1ZRVDE5UVFWTlRWMDlTUkE9PSJ9fX0=
```

In the example above the secret type is `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` and the webhook can get credentials from vault.
The base64 encoded data contain vault path in case of username and password for docker repository and you can create it with commands:
```
kubectl create secret docker-registry dockerhub --docker-username="vault:secret/data/dockerrepo#DOCKER_REPO_USER" --docker-password="vault:secret/data/dockerrepo#DOCKER_REPO_PASSWORD"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr="https://vault.default.svc.cluster.local:8200"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role="default"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify="true"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path="kubernetes"
```


## Using charts without explicit container.command and container.args

The Webhook is now capable of determining the container's entrypoint and command with the help of image metadata queried from the image registry, this data is cached until the webhook Pod is restarted. If the registry is publicly accessible (without authentication) you don't need to do anything, but if the registry requires authentication the credentials have to be available in the Pod's `imagePullSecrets` section.

Some examples (apply `cr.yaml` from the operator samples first):

```bash
helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql \
  --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD \
  --set mysqlPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_PASSWORD \
  --set "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-addr"=https://vault:8200 \
  --set "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-tls-secret"=vault-tls
```

### Registry access

You can also specify a default secret to be used by the webhook for cases where a pod has no `imagePullSecrets` specified. For this to work you have to set the environment variables `DEFAULT_IMAGE_PULL_SECRET` and `DEFAULT_IMAGE_PULL_SECRET_NAMESPACE` when deploying the vault-secrets-webhook. Have a look at the values.yaml of the
[vault-secrets-webhook](https://github.com/banzaicloud/bank-vaults/blob/master/charts/vault-secrets-webhook/values.yaml) helm chart to see how this is done.

Future improvements:
- on AWS and GKE get a credential dynamically with the specific SDK

When using a private image repository:

```bash
# Docker Hub

kubectl create secret docker-registry dockerhub --docker-username=${DOCKER_USERNAME} --docker-password=$DOCKER_PASSWORD

helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD --set "imagePullSecrets[0].name=dockerhub" --set-string "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-skip-verify=true" --set image="private-repo/mysql"

# GCR

kubectl create secret docker-registry gcr \
--docker-server=gcr.io \
--docker-username=_json_key \
--docker-password="$(cat ~/json-key-file.json)"

helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD --set "imagePullSecrets[0].name=gcr" --set-string "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-skip-verify=true" --set image="gcr.io/your-repo/mysql"

# ECR

TOKEN=`aws ecr --region=eu-west-1 get-authorization-token --output text --query authorizationData[].authorizationToken | base64 --decode | cut -d: -f2`

kubectl create secret docker-registry ecr \
 --docker-server=https://171832738826.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com \
 --docker-username=AWS \
 --docker-password="${TOKEN}"

 helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD --set "imagePullSecrets[0].name=ecr" --set-string "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-skip-verify=true" --set image="171832738826.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/mysql" --set-string imageTag=5.7
```

## Running webhook and Vault in different K8S cluster

You have two differnt K8S clusters.
- `cluster1` contains `vault-operator`
- `cluster2` contains `vault-secrets-webhook`

You have a cluster with running `vault-operator` (`cluster1`), and you have to grant access to the `Vault` from other K8S cluster which contains `vault-secrets-webhook` (`cluster2`).

1. In your `vaults.vault.banzaicloud.com` under `operator/deploy/cr.yaml` custom resource you have to define proper `externalConfig` containing the `cluster2` config.

from your (`cluster2`) kubeconfig file:
You can get K8S cert and host:
```bash
kubectl config view -o yaml --minify=true --raw=true
```
you need to decode the cert before passing it in your `externalConfig`:
```
grep 'certificate-authority-data' $HOME/.kube/config | awk '{print $2}' | base64 --decode
```

2. on your (`cluster2`), create `vault` serviceaccount and `vault-auth-delegator` clusterrolebinding:
```bash
kubectl apply -f operator/deployment/rbac.yaml
```

You can use vault serviceaccount token as `token_reviewer_jwt`:
```bash
kubectl get secret $(kubectl get sa vault -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}') -o jsonpath='{.data.token}' | base64 --decode
```

3. Now you can use proper `kubernetes_ca_cert`, `kubernetes_host` and `token_reviewer_jwt` in your (`cluster1`) CR yaml file:
```yaml
  externalConfig:
    policies:
      - name: allow_secrets
        rules: path "secret/*" {
          capabilities = ["create", "read", "update", "delete", "list"]
          }
    auth:
      - type: kubernetes
        config:
          token_reviewer_jwt: webhook.cluster.token.reviewer.token
          kubernetes_ca_cert: |
            -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
            webhook.cluster.cert
            -----END CERTIFICATE-----
          kubernetes_host: https://webhook-cluster
        roles:
          # Allow every pod in the default namespace to use the secret kv store
          - name: default
            bound_service_account_names: ["default", "vault-secrets-webhook"]
            bound_service_account_namespaces: ["default", "vswh"]
            policies: allow_secrets
            ttl: 1h
```

4. In production environment highly recommended to specify TLS config for your Vault ingress.
```yaml
  # Request an Ingress controller with the default configuration
  ingress:
    # Specify Ingress object annotations here, if TLS is enabled (which is by default)
    # the operator will add NGINX, Traefik and HAProxy Ingress compatible annotations
    # to support TLS backends
    annotations:
    # Override the default Ingress specification here
    # This follows the same format as the standard Kubernetes Ingress
    # See: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.13/#ingressspec-v1beta1-extensions
    spec:
      tls:
      - hosts:
        - vault-dns-name
        secretName: vault-ingress-tls-secret
```

5. Deploy `Vault` with operator in your `cluster1`:
```bash
kubectl apply -f your-proper-vault-cr.yaml
```

6. After Vault started in `cluster1` you can use `vault-secrets-webhook` in `cluster2` with proper annotations:
```yaml
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: hello-secrets
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/name: hello-secrets
      annotations:
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault-dns-name:443"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "true"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes"
```

Commit message:

docs: clarify ECR IAM access
Signed-off-by: Nandor Kracser <bonifaido@gmail.com>

docs/mutating-webhook/README.md, after:

# Mutating Webhook

The mutating admission webhook injects an executable to containers (in a very non-intrusive way) inside a Deployments/StatefulSets which than can request secrets from Vault through special environment variable definitions. The project is inspired by many, already existing projects (e.g.: `channable/vaultenv`, `hashicorp/envconsul`). The webhook checks if a container has environment variables defined in the following form, and reads the values for those variables directly from Vault during startup time:

```yaml
        env:
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          value: vault:secret/data/accounts/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
# or
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: aws-key-secret
              key: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
# or
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
            valueFrom:
              configMapKeyRef:
                name: aws-key-configmap
                key: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

The webhook checks if a container has envFrom and parse defined configmaps and secrets:

```yaml
        envFrom:
          - secretRef:
              name: aws-key-secret
# or
          - configMapRef:
              name: aws-key-configmap
```

Secret and ConfigMap examples:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: aws-key-secret
data:
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: vault:secret/data/accounts/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
type: Opaque
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: aws-key-configmap
data:
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESSKEY: vault:secret/data/accounts/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

Writing into Vault, for example getting a [dynamic database username/password pair for MySQL](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/databases/mysql-maria.html#usage):

***NOTE**: This feature takes advantage of secret caching, since we need to access the `my-role` endpoint twice, but in the background it is written only once in Vault:*

```yaml
    env:
    - name: MYSQL_USERNAME
      value: ">>vault:database/creds/my-role#username"
    - name: MYSQL_PASSWORD
      value: ">>vault:database/creds/my-role#password"
```

[Templating](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) is also supported on the secret sourced from Vault (in the key part, after the first `#`), in the very same fashion as in the Vault configuration and external configuration with all [the Sprig functions](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/) (this is supported only for Pods right now):

```yaml
    env:
    - name: DOCKER_USERNAME
      value: "vault:secret/data/accounts/dockerhub#My username on DockerHub is: ${title .DOCKER_USERNAME}"
```

In this case the a init-container will be injected to the given Pod which copies a small binary, called `vault-env` into an in-memory volume and mounts that Volume to all the containers which have an environment variable definition like that. It also changes the `command` of the container to run `vault-env` instead of your application directly. `vault-env` starts up, connects to Vault with (currently with the [Kubernetes Auth method](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/kubernetes.html) checks the environment variables, and that has a reference to a value stored in Vault (`vault:secret/....`) will be replaced with that value read from the Secret backend, after this `vault-env` immediately executes (with `syscall.Exec()`) your process with the given arguments, replacing itself with that process.

**With this solution none of your Secrets stored in Vault will ever land in Kubernetes Secrets, thus in etcd.**

`vault-env` was designed to work in Kubernetes at the first place, but nothing stops you to use it outside Kubernetes as well. It can be configured with the standard Vault client's [environment variables](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/#environment-variables) (because there is a standard Go Vault client underneath).

Currently the Kubernetes Service Account based Vault authentication mechanism is used by `vault-env`, so it requests a Vault token based on the Service Account of the container it is injected into. Implementation is ongoing to use [Vault Agent's Auto-Auth](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/agent/autoauth/index.html) to request tokens in an init-container with all the supported authentication mechanisms.

Kubernetes 1.12 introduced a feature called [APIServer dry-run](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/01/14/apiserver-dry-run-and-kubectl-diff/) which became beta as of 1.13. This feature requires some changes in webhooks with side effects.
Vault mutating admission webhook is `dry-run aware`.

## Deploying the webhook

### Helm chart

There is a Helm chart available to deploy the [Vault Secrets Webhook](https://github.com/banzaicloud/bank-vaults/tree/master/charts/vault-secrets-webhook).

```bash
helm init -c
helm repo add banzaicloud-stable https://kubernetes-charts.banzaicloud.com
helm upgrade --namespace vswh --install vswh banzaicloud-stable/vault-secrets-webhook
```

For further details follow the webhook's Helm chart [repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/bank-vaults/tree/master/charts/vault-secrets-webhook).

## Example

Write a secret into Vault:

```bash
vault kv put secret/valami/aws AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=s3cr3t
```

This deployment will be mutated by the webhook, since it has at least one environment variable having a value which is a reference to a path in Vault:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: vault-test
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
      annotations:
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault:8200" # optional, the address of the Vault service, default values is https://vault:8200
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default" # optional, the default value is the name of the ServiceAccount the Pod runs in, in case of Secrets and ConfigMaps it is "default"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "false" # optional, skip TLS verification of the Vault server certificate
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-tls-secret: "vault-tls" # optinal, the name of the Secret where the Vault CA cert is, if not defined it is not mounted
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-agent: "false" # optional, if true, a Vault Agent will be started to do Vault authentication, by default not needed and vault-env will do Kubernetes Service Account based Vault authentication
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes" # optional, the Kubernetes Auth mount path in Vault the default value is "kubernetes"
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: default
      containers:
      - name: alpine
        image: alpine
        command: ["sh", "-c", "echo $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY && echo going to sleep... && sleep 10000"]
        env:
        - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
          value: vault:secret/data/valami/aws#AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

## Getting secret data from Vault and replace it in Kubernetes Secret

You can mutate secrets as well if you set annotations and define proper vault path in secret data:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: sample-secret
  annotations:
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault.default.svc.cluster.local:8200"
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default"
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "true"
    vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes"
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
data:
  .dockerconfigjson: eyJhdXRocyI6eyJodHRwczovL2RvY2tlci5pbyI6eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InZhdWx0OnNlY3JldC9kYXRhL2RvY2tlcnJlcG8vI0RPQ0tFUl9SRVBPX1VTRVIiLCJwYXNzd29yZCI6InZhdWx0OnNlY3JldC9kYXRhL2RvY2tlcnJlcG8vI0RPQ0tFUl9SRVBPX1BBU1NXT1JEIiwiYXV0aCI6ImRtRjFiSFE2YzJWamNtVjBMMlJoZEdFdlpHOWphMlZ5Y21Wd2J5OGpSRTlEUzBWU1gxSkZVRTlmVlZORlVqcDJZWFZzZERwelpXTnlaWFF2WkdGMFlTOWtiMk5yWlhKeVpYQnZMeU5FVDBOTFJWSmZVa1ZRVDE5UVFWTlRWMDlTUkE9PSJ9fX0=
```

In the example above the secret type is `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson` and the webhook can get credentials from vault.
The base64 encoded data contain vault path in case of username and password for docker repository and you can create it with commands:
```
kubectl create secret docker-registry dockerhub --docker-username="vault:secret/data/dockerrepo#DOCKER_REPO_USER" --docker-password="vault:secret/data/dockerrepo#DOCKER_REPO_PASSWORD"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr="https://vault.default.svc.cluster.local:8200"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role="default"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify="true"
kubectl annotate secret dockerhub vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path="kubernetes"
```


## Using charts without explicit container.command and container.args

The Webhook is now capable of determining the container's entrypoint and command with the help of image metadata queried from the image registry, this data is cached until the webhook Pod is restarted. If the registry is publicly accessible (without authentication) you don't need to do anything, but if the registry requires authentication the credentials have to be available in the Pod's `imagePullSecrets` section.

Some examples (apply `cr.yaml` from the operator samples first):

```bash
helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql \
  --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD \
  --set mysqlPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_PASSWORD \
  --set "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-addr"=https://vault:8200 \
  --set "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-tls-secret"=vault-tls
```

### Registry access

You can also specify a default secret to be used by the webhook for cases where a pod has no `imagePullSecrets` specified. For this to work you have to set the environment variables `DEFAULT_IMAGE_PULL_SECRET` and `DEFAULT_IMAGE_PULL_SECRET_NAMESPACE` when deploying the vault-secrets-webhook. Have a look at the values.yaml of the
[vault-secrets-webhook](https://github.com/banzaicloud/bank-vaults/blob/master/charts/vault-secrets-webhook/values.yaml) helm chart to see how this is done.

**NOTE**: _If you EC2 nodes are having ECR instance role added the webhook can request an ECR access token through that role automatically, instead of an explicit `imagePullSecret`_

Future improvements:
- on Azure/Alibaba and GKE get a credential dynamically with the specific SDK (for AWS ECR this is already done)

When using a private image repository:

```bash
# Docker Hub

kubectl create secret docker-registry dockerhub --docker-username=${DOCKER_USERNAME} --docker-password=$DOCKER_PASSWORD

helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD --set "imagePullSecrets[0].name=dockerhub" --set-string "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-skip-verify=true" --set image="private-repo/mysql"

# GCR

kubectl create secret docker-registry gcr \
--docker-server=gcr.io \
--docker-username=_json_key \
--docker-password="$(cat ~/json-key-file.json)"

helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD --set "imagePullSecrets[0].name=gcr" --set-string "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-skip-verify=true" --set image="gcr.io/your-repo/mysql"

# ECR

TOKEN=`aws ecr --region=eu-west-1 get-authorization-token --output text --query authorizationData[].authorizationToken | base64 --decode | cut -d: -f2`

kubectl create secret docker-registry ecr \
 --docker-server=https://171832738826.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com \
 --docker-username=AWS \
 --docker-password="${TOKEN}"

 helm upgrade --install mysql stable/mysql --set mysqlRootPassword=vault:secret/data/mysql#MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD --set "imagePullSecrets[0].name=ecr" --set-string "podAnnotations.vault\.security\.banzaicloud\.io/vault-skip-verify=true" --set image="171832738826.dkr.ecr.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/mysql" --set-string imageTag=5.7
```

## Running webhook and Vault in different K8S cluster

You have two differnt K8S clusters.
- `cluster1` contains `vault-operator`
- `cluster2` contains `vault-secrets-webhook`

You have a cluster with running `vault-operator` (`cluster1`), and you have to grant access to the `Vault` from other K8S cluster which contains `vault-secrets-webhook` (`cluster2`).

1. In your `vaults.vault.banzaicloud.com` under `operator/deploy/cr.yaml` custom resource you have to define proper `externalConfig` containing the `cluster2` config.

from your (`cluster2`) kubeconfig file:
You can get K8S cert and host:
```bash
kubectl config view -o yaml --minify=true --raw=true
```
you need to decode the cert before passing it in your `externalConfig`:
```
grep 'certificate-authority-data' $HOME/.kube/config | awk '{print $2}' | base64 --decode
```

2. on your (`cluster2`), create `vault` serviceaccount and `vault-auth-delegator` clusterrolebinding:
```bash
kubectl apply -f operator/deployment/rbac.yaml
```

You can use vault serviceaccount token as `token_reviewer_jwt`:
```bash
kubectl get secret $(kubectl get sa vault -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}') -o jsonpath='{.data.token}' | base64 --decode
```

3. Now you can use proper `kubernetes_ca_cert`, `kubernetes_host` and `token_reviewer_jwt` in your (`cluster1`) CR yaml file:
```yaml
  externalConfig:
    policies:
      - name: allow_secrets
        rules: path "secret/*" {
          capabilities = ["create", "read", "update", "delete", "list"]
          }
    auth:
      - type: kubernetes
        config:
          token_reviewer_jwt: webhook.cluster.token.reviewer.token
          kubernetes_ca_cert: |
            -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
            webhook.cluster.cert
            -----END CERTIFICATE-----
          kubernetes_host: https://webhook-cluster
        roles:
          # Allow every pod in the default namespace to use the secret kv store
          - name: default
            bound_service_account_names: ["default", "vault-secrets-webhook"]
            bound_service_account_namespaces: ["default", "vswh"]
            policies: allow_secrets
            ttl: 1h
```

4. In production environment highly recommended to specify TLS config for your Vault ingress.
```yaml
  # Request an Ingress controller with the default configuration
  ingress:
    # Specify Ingress object annotations here, if TLS is enabled (which is by default)
    # the operator will add NGINX, Traefik and HAProxy Ingress compatible annotations
    # to support TLS backends
    annotations:
    # Override the default Ingress specification here
    # This follows the same format as the standard Kubernetes Ingress
    # See: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.13/#ingressspec-v1beta1-extensions
    spec:
      tls:
      - hosts:
        - vault-dns-name
        secretName: vault-ingress-tls-secret
```

5. Deploy `Vault` with operator in your `cluster1`:
```bash
kubectl apply -f your-proper-vault-cr.yaml
```

6. After Vault started in `cluster1` you can use `vault-secrets-webhook` in `cluster2` with proper annotations:
```yaml
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: hello-secrets
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/name: hello-secrets
      annotations:
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault-dns-name:443"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "true"
        vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes"
```
