docs/mutating-webhook/transit-encryption.md, before:

---
title: Transit Encryption
weight: 200
---

The transit secrets engine handles cryptographic functions on data in-transit, mainly to encrypt data from applications while still storing that encrypted data in some primary data store. Vault doesn't store the data sent to the secrets engine, it can also be viewed as "cryptography as a service" or "encryption as a service". For details about transit encryption, see the [official documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit/index.html).

> Note: Transit encryption supports only POD mutations.

## Enable Transit secrets engine

To enable and test the Transit secrets engine, complete the following steps.

1. Enable the Transit secrets engine:

    ```bash
    vault secrets enable transit
    ```

1. Create a named encryption key:

    ```bash
    vault write -f transit/keys/my-key
    ```

1. Encrypt data with encryption key:

    ```bash
    vault write transit/encrypt/my-key plaintext=$(base64 <<< "my secret data")
    ```

1. After completing the previous steps, the webhook will mutate pods that have at least one environment variable with a value which is encrypted by Vault. For example (in the last line of the example):

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: vault-test
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
          annotations:
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault:8200" # optional, the address of the Vault service, default values is https://vault:8200
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default" # optional, the default value is the name of the ServiceAccount the Pod runs in, in case of Secrets and ConfigMaps it is "default"
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "false" # optional, skip TLS verification of the Vault server certificate
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-tls-secret: "vault-tls" # optinal, the name of the Secret where the Vault CA cert is, if not defined it is not mounted
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-agent: "false" # optional, if true, a Vault Agent will be started to do Vault authentication, by default not needed and vault-env will do Kubernetes Service Account based Vault authentication
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes" # optional, the Kubernetes Auth mount path in Vault the default value is "kubernetes"
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/transit-key-id: "my-key" # required if encrypted data was found; transit key id that created before
        spec:
          serviceAccountName: default
          containers:
          - name: alpine
            image: alpine
            command: ["sh", "-c", "echo $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY && echo going to sleep... && sleep 10000"]
            env:
            - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
              # Value based on encrypted key that stored in Vault, so value from this example
              # not the same as you can get after `encrypt`
              value: vault:v1:8SDd3WHDOjf7mq69CyCqYjBXAiQQAVZRkFM13ok481zoCmHnSeDX9vyf7w==
    ```

Commit message:

Adds link to B-V with Istio page

docs/mutating-webhook/transit-encryption.md, after:

---
title: Transit Encryption
weight: 200
---

The transit secrets engine handles cryptographic functions on data in-transit, mainly to encrypt data from applications while still storing that encrypted data in some primary data store. Vault doesn't store the data sent to the secrets engine, it can also be viewed as "cryptography as a service" or "encryption as a service". For details about transit encryption, see the [official documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit/index.html).

> Note:
>
> - Transit encryption supports only POD mutations.
> - You can also [use Bank-Vaults with Istio](/docs/bank-vaults/istio/).

## Enable Transit secrets engine

To enable and test the Transit secrets engine, complete the following steps.

1. Enable the Transit secrets engine:

    ```bash
    vault secrets enable transit
    ```

1. Create a named encryption key:

    ```bash
    vault write -f transit/keys/my-key
    ```

1. Encrypt data with encryption key:

    ```bash
    vault write transit/encrypt/my-key plaintext=$(base64 <<< "my secret data")
    ```

1. After completing the previous steps, the webhook will mutate pods that have at least one environment variable with a value which is encrypted by Vault. For example (in the last line of the example):

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: vault-test
    spec:
      replicas: 1
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app.kubernetes.io/name: vault
          annotations:
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr: "https://vault:8200" # optional, the address of the Vault service, default values is https://vault:8200
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role: "default" # optional, the default value is the name of the ServiceAccount the Pod runs in, in case of Secrets and ConfigMaps it is "default"
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify: "false" # optional, skip TLS verification of the Vault server certificate
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-tls-secret: "vault-tls" # optinal, the name of the Secret where the Vault CA cert is, if not defined it is not mounted
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-agent: "false" # optional, if true, a Vault Agent will be started to do Vault authentication, by default not needed and vault-env will do Kubernetes Service Account based Vault authentication
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path: "kubernetes" # optional, the Kubernetes Auth mount path in Vault the default value is "kubernetes"
            vault.security.banzaicloud.io/transit-key-id: "my-key" # required if encrypted data was found; transit key id that created before
        spec:
          serviceAccountName: default
          containers:
          - name: alpine
            image: alpine
            command: ["sh", "-c", "echo $AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY && echo going to sleep... && sleep 10000"]
            env:
            - name: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
              # Value based on encrypted key that stored in Vault, so value from this example
              # not the same as you can get after `encrypt`
              value: vault:v1:8SDd3WHDOjf7mq69CyCqYjBXAiQQAVZRkFM13ok481zoCmHnSeDX9vyf7w==
    ```
