docs/unseal-keys/README.md, before:

# Unseal Keys

The keys that will be stored are:

- `vault-root`, which is the Vault's root token
- `vault-unseal-N`, where `N` is a number, starting at 0 up to the maximum defined minus 1, e.g. 5 unseal keys will be `vault-unseal-0` up to including `vault-unseal-4`

HashiCorp [recommends to revoke root tokens](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/tokens.html#root-tokens) after the initial set up of Vault has been completed.
To unseal Vault the `vault-root` token is not needed and can be removed from the storage if it was put there via the `--init` call to `bank-vaults`.

## Decrypting root token

### AWS

To use the KMS-encrypted root token with Vault CLI:

Required CLI tools:
- aws

1. Download root token file to your local file system
1. Decrypt the token and save it as an environment variable
    ```bash
    export VAULT_TOKEN="$(aws kms decrypt --ciphertext-blob fileb://<encrypted token file> --encryption-context Tool=bank-vaults --query Plaintext --output text | base64 --decode)"
    ```

### Google Cloud

To use the KMS-encrypted root token with vault CLI:

Required CLI tools:
- `gcloud`
- `gsutil`

```bash
GOOGLE_PROJECT="my-project"
GOOGLE_REGION="us-central1"
BUCKET="bank-vaults-bucket"
KEYRING="beta"
KEY="beta"

export VAULT_TOKEN=$(gsutil cat gs://${BUCKET}/vault-root | gcloud kms decrypt \
                     --project ${GOOGLE_PROJECT} \
                     --location ${GOOGLE_REGION} \
                     --keyring ${KEYRING} \
                     --key ${KEY} \
                     --ciphertext-file - \
                     --plaintext-file -)
```

Commit message:

docs: describe K8S unseal backend
Signed-off-by: Nandor Kracser <bonifaido@gmail.com>

docs/unseal-keys/README.md, after:

# Unseal Keys

Vault data and the unseal keys live together, if you delete a Vault instance installed by the operator or the Helm chart all your data and the unseal keys to that initialized state should remain untouched. Read more about it in the [official documentaion](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/seal/).

The keys that will be stored by Bank-Vaults are:

- `vault-root`, which is the Vault's root token
- `vault-unseal-N`, where `N` is a number, starting at 0 up to the maximum defined minus 1, e.g. 5 unseal keys will be `vault-unseal-0` up to including `vault-unseal-4`

HashiCorp [recommends to revoke root tokens](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/tokens.html#root-tokens) after the initial set up of Vault has been completed.
To unseal Vault the `vault-root` token is not needed and can be removed from the storage if it was put there via the `--init` call to `bank-vaults`.

## Decrypting root token

### AWS

To use the KMS-encrypted root token with Vault CLI:

Required CLI tools:
- aws

1. Download root token file to your local file system
1. Decrypt the token and save it as an environment variable
    ```bash
    export VAULT_TOKEN="$(aws kms decrypt --ciphertext-blob fileb://<encrypted token file> --encryption-context Tool=bank-vaults --query Plaintext --output text | base64 --decode)"
    ```

### Google Cloud

To use the KMS-encrypted root token with vault CLI:

Required CLI tools:
- `gcloud`
- `gsutil`

```bash
GOOGLE_PROJECT="my-project"
GOOGLE_REGION="us-central1"
BUCKET="bank-vaults-bucket"
KEYRING="beta"
KEY="beta"

export VAULT_TOKEN=$(gsutil cat gs://${BUCKET}/vault-root | gcloud kms decrypt \
                     --project ${GOOGLE_PROJECT} \
                     --location ${GOOGLE_REGION} \
                     --keyring ${KEYRING} \
                     --key ${KEY} \
                     --ciphertext-file - \
                     --plaintext-file -)
```

### Kubernetes

There is a Kubernetes Secret backed unseal storage in Bank-Vaults, you should be aware of that Kubernetes Secrets are base64 encoded only if you are not using a [EncryptionConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/) in your Kubernetes cluster.

```bash
VAULT_NAME="vault"

export VAULT_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secrets ${VAULT_NAME}-unseal-keys -o jsonpath={.data.vault-root} | base64 -d)
```
