content/docs/mutating-webhook/annotations.md, before:

---
title: Annotations
weight: 40
---

The mutating webhook adds the following PodSpec, Secret, ConfigMap, and CRD annotations.

|Annotation    |default     |Explanation |
|--------------|------------|------------|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr`|`"https://vault:8200"`|Same as VAULT_ADDR|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-image`|`"hashicorp/vault:latest"`|Vault agent image|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-image-pull-policy`|`IfNotPresent`|the Pull policy for the vault agent container|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role`|`""`|The Vault role for Vault agent to use, for Pods it is the name of the ServiceAccount if not specified|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path`|`"kubernetes"`|The mount path of the auth method|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify`|`"false"`|Same as VAULT_SKIP_VERIFY|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-tls-secret`|`""`|Name of the Kubernetes Secret holding the CA certificate for Vault|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-ignore-missing-secrets`|`"false"`|When enabled will only log warnings when Vault secrets are missing|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-passthrough`|`""`|Comma separated list of `VAULT_*` related environment variables to pass through to `vault-env` to the main process. E.g. `VAULT_ADDR,VAULT_ROLE`.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-daemon`|`"false"`|Run `vault-env` as a daemon instead of replacing itself with the main process. For details, see {{% xref "/docs/mutating-webhook/deploy.md#daemon-mode" %}}.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-image`|`"banzaicloud/vault-env:latest"`|vault-env image|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-image-pull-policy`|`IfNotPresent`|the Pull policy for the vault-env container|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/enable-json-log`|`"false"`|Log in JSON format in `vault-env`|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/mutate`|`""`|Defines the mutation of the given resource, possible values: `"skip"` which prevents it.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/mutate-probes`|`"false"`|Mutate the ENV passed to a liveness or readiness probe.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-from-path`|`""`|Comma-delimited list of vault paths to pull in all secrets as environment variables|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/token-auth-mount`|`""`|`{volume:file}` to be injected as `.vault-token`. |
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-auth-method`|`"jwt"`| The [Vault authentication method](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth) to be used, one of `["kubernetes", "aws-ec2", "aws-iam", "gcp-gce", "gcp-iam", "jwt", "azure", "namespaced"]`|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-serviceaccount`|`""`| The ServiceAccount in the objects namespace to use, useful for non-pod resources |
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-namespace`|`""`|The [Vault Namespace](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/enterprise/namespaces) secrets will be pulled from. This annotation sets the `VAULT_NAMESPACE` environment variable.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/run-as-non-root`|`"false"`|When enabled will add `runAsNonRoot: true` to the `securityContext` of all injected containers|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/run-as-user`|`"0"`|Set the UID (`runAsUser`) for all injected containers. The default value of `"0"` means that no modifications will be made to the `securityContext` of injected containers.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/run-as-group`|`"0"`|Set the GID (`runAsGroup`) for all injected containers. The default value of `"0"` means that no modifications will be made to the `securityContext` of injected containers.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/readonly-root-fs`|`"false"`|When enabled will add `readOnlyRootFilesystem: true` to the `securityContext` of all injected containers|

Commit message:

feat: vault-env-from-path annotation versioning
Signed-off-by: András Jáky <ajaky@cisco.com>

Signed-off-by: András Jáky <ajaky@cisco.com>

Signed-off-by: András Jáky <ajaky@cisco.com>

Signed-off-by: András Jáky <ajaky@cisco.com>

content/docs/mutating-webhook/annotations.md, after:

---
title: Annotations
weight: 40
---

The mutating webhook adds the following PodSpec, Secret, ConfigMap, and CRD annotations.

|Annotation    |default     |Explanation |
|--------------|------------|------------|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-addr`|`"https://vault:8200"`|Same as VAULT_ADDR|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-image`|`"hashicorp/vault:latest"`|Vault agent image|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-image-pull-policy`|`IfNotPresent`|the Pull policy for the vault agent container|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-role`|`""`|The Vault role for Vault agent to use, for Pods it is the name of the ServiceAccount if not specified|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-path`|`"kubernetes"`|The mount path of the auth method|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-skip-verify`|`"false"`|Same as VAULT_SKIP_VERIFY|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-tls-secret`|`""`|Name of the Kubernetes Secret holding the CA certificate for Vault|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-ignore-missing-secrets`|`"false"`|When enabled will only log warnings when Vault secrets are missing|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-passthrough`|`""`|Comma separated list of `VAULT_*` related environment variables to pass through to `vault-env` to the main process. E.g. `VAULT_ADDR,VAULT_ROLE`.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-daemon`|`"false"`|Run `vault-env` as a daemon instead of replacing itself with the main process. For details, see {{% xref "/docs/mutating-webhook/deploy.md#daemon-mode" %}}.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-image`|`"banzaicloud/vault-env:latest"`|vault-env image|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-image-pull-policy`|`IfNotPresent`|the Pull policy for the vault-env container|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/enable-json-log`|`"false"`|Log in JSON format in `vault-env`|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/mutate`|`""`|Defines the mutation of the given resource, possible values: `"skip"` which prevents it.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/mutate-probes`|`"false"`|Mutate the ENV passed to a liveness or readiness probe.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-env-from-path`|`""`|Comma-delimited list of vault paths to pull in all secrets as
environment variables, which also supports versioning (since `vault-env` v1.21.1). For more details, see {{% xref
"/docs/mutating-webhook/configuration.md#mount-all-keys" %}}.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/token-auth-mount`|`""`|`{volume:file}` to be injected as `.vault-token`. |
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-auth-method`|`"jwt"`| The [Vault authentication method](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth) to be used, one of `["kubernetes", "aws-ec2", "aws-iam", "gcp-gce", "gcp-iam", "jwt", "azure", "namespaced"]`|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-serviceaccount`|`""`| The ServiceAccount in the objects namespace to use, useful for non-pod resources |
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/vault-namespace`|`""`|The [Vault Namespace](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/enterprise/namespaces) secrets will be pulled from. This annotation sets the `VAULT_NAMESPACE` environment variable.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/run-as-non-root`|`"false"`|When enabled will add `runAsNonRoot: true` to the `securityContext` of all injected containers|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/run-as-user`|`"0"`|Set the UID (`runAsUser`) for all injected containers. The default value of `"0"` means that no modifications will be made to the `securityContext` of injected containers.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/run-as-group`|`"0"`|Set the GID (`runAsGroup`) for all injected containers. The default value of `"0"` means that no modifications will be made to the `securityContext` of injected containers.|
`vault.security.banzaicloud.io/readonly-root-fs`|`"false"`|When enabled will add `readOnlyRootFilesystem: true` to the `securityContext` of all injected containers|
