content/docs/tls/_index.md, before:

---
title: TLS
weight: 500
---

Bank-Vaults tries to automate as much as possible for handling TLS certificates.

- The `vault-operator` automates the creation and renewal of TLS certificates for Vault.
- The `vault` Helm Chart automates only the creation of TLS certificates for Vault via [Sprig](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html).

Both the operator and the chart generate a Kubernetes Secret holding the TLS certificates, this is named `${VAULT_CR_NAME}-tls`. For most examples in the [Bank-Vaults project](https://github.com/bank-vaults/), the name of the secret is `vault-tls`.

The Secret data keys are:

- `ca.crt`
- `server.crt`
- `server.key`

> Note: The operator doesn't overwrite this Secret if it already exists, so you can provide this certificate in any other way, for example using [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) or by simply placing it there manually.

## Operator custom TLS settings

The following attributes influence the TLS settings of the operator. The `ca.crt` key is mandatory in [existingTlsSecretName](#existingtlssecretname), otherwise the Bank-Vaults components can't verify the Vault server certificate.

### CANamespaces

The list of namespaces where the generated CA certificate for Vault should be distributed. Use ["*"] for all namespaces.

Default value: *[]*

### ExistingTLSSecretName

The name of the secret that contains a TLS server certificate, key, and the corresponding CA certificate. The secret must be in the **kubernetes.io/tls type secret keys + ca.crt key** format. If the attribute is set, the operator uses the certificate already set in the secret, otherwise it generates a new one.

The `ca.crt` key is mandatory, otherwise the Bank-Vaults components can't verify the Vault server certificate.

Default value: *""*

### TLSAdditionalHosts

A list hostnames or IP addresses to add to the SAN on the automatically generated TLS certificate.

Default value: *[]*

### TLSExpiryThreshold

The expiration threshold of the Vault TLS certificate in Go Duration format.

Default value: *168h*

## Using the generated custom TLS certificate with vault-operator

To use an existing secret which contains the TLS certificate, define [existingTlsSecretName](#existingtlssecretname) in the Vault custom resource.

## Generate custom certificates with CFSSL

If you don't want to use the certificates generated by Helm or the Bank-Vaults operator, the easiest way to create a custom certificate for Bank-Vaults is using [CFSSL](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl).

The [https://github.com/bank-vaults/bank-vaults.dev/tree/main/content/docs/tls directory](https://github.com/bank-vaults/bank-vaults.dev/tree/main/content/docs/tls) holds a set of custom CFSSL configurations which are prepared for the Helm release name `vault` in the `default` namespace. Of course, you can put any other certificates into the Secret below, this is just an example.

1. Install [CFSSL](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl).
1. Create a CA:

    ```bash
    cfssl genkey -initca csr.json | cfssljson -bare ca
    ```

1. Create a server certificate:

    ```bash
    cfssl gencert -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -config=config.json -profile=server server.json | cfssljson -bare server
    ```

1. Put these certificates (and the server key) into a Kubernetes Secret:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic vault-tls --from-file=ca.crt=ca.pem --from-file=server.crt=server.pem --from-file=server.key=server-key.pem
    ```

1. Install the Vault instance:

    - With the chart which uses this certificate:

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install vault ../charts/vault --set tls.secretName=vault-tls
    ```

    - With the operator, create a Vault custom resource, and apply it:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f vault-cr.yaml
    ```

## Generate custom certificates with cert-manager

You can use the following [cert-manager custom resource](https://cert-manager.io) to generate a certificate for Bank-Vaults.

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: test-selfsigned
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
---
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-cert
spec:
  commonName: vault
  usages:
    - server auth
  dnsNames:
    - vault
    - vault.default
    - vault.default.svc
    - vault.default.svc.cluster.local
  ipAddresses:
    - 127.0.0.1
  secretName: selfsigned-cert-tls
  issuerRef:
    name: test-selfsigned
EOF
```

Commit message:

docs: Add TLS settings for Helm chart (#149)
* docs: Add TLS settings for Helm chart

Signed-off-by: Tanmay Pereira Naik <tanmay.naik@thoughtworks.com>
Signed-off-by: Tanmay Pereira Naik <59953366+tanmay-pnaik@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: Add info on supported versions per review comments

Signed-off-by: Tanmay Pereira Naik <59953366+tanmay-pnaik@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tanmay Pereira Naik <tanmay.naik@thoughtworks.com>
Signed-off-by: Tanmay Pereira Naik <59953366+tanmay-pnaik@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/tls/_index.md, after:

---
title: TLS
weight: 500
---

Bank-Vaults tries to automate as much as possible for handling TLS certificates.

- The `vault-operator` automates the creation and renewal of TLS certificates for Vault.
- The `vault` Helm Chart automates only the creation of TLS certificates for Vault via [Sprig](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/crypto.html).

Both the operator and the chart generate a Kubernetes Secret holding the TLS certificates, this is named `${VAULT_CR_NAME}-tls`. For most examples in the [Bank-Vaults project](https://github.com/bank-vaults/), the name of the secret is `vault-tls`.

The Secret data keys are:

- `ca.crt`
- `ca.key`
- `server.crt`
- `server.key`

> Note: The operator doesn't overwrite this Secret if it already exists, so you can provide this certificate in any other way, for example using [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) or by simply placing it there manually.

## Operator custom TLS settings

The following attributes influence the TLS settings of the operator. The `ca.crt` key is mandatory in [existingTlsSecretName](#existingtlssecretname), otherwise the Bank-Vaults components can't verify the Vault server certificate.

### CANamespaces

The list of namespaces where the generated CA certificate for Vault should be distributed. Use ["*"] for all namespaces.

Default value: *[]*

### ExistingTLSSecretName

The name of the secret that contains a TLS server certificate, key, and the corresponding CA certificate. The secret must be in the **kubernetes.io/tls type secret keys + ca.crt key** format. If the attribute is set, the operator uses the certificate already set in the secret, otherwise it generates a new one.

The `ca.crt` key is mandatory, otherwise the Bank-Vaults components can't verify the Vault server certificate.

Default value: *""*

### TLSAdditionalHosts

A list hostnames or IP addresses to add to the SAN on the automatically generated TLS certificate.

Default value: *[]*

### TLSExpiryThreshold

The expiration threshold of the Vault TLS certificate in Go Duration format.

Default value: *168h*

## Helm chart custom TLS settings

Starting with version 1.20, the Vault Helm chart allows you to set custom TLS settings. The following attributes influence the TLS settings of the Helm chart. The `ca.crt` key is mandatory in [secretName](#secretname), otherwise the Bank-Vaults components can't verify the Vault server certificate.

### SecretName

The name of the secret that contains a TLS server certificate, key, and the corresponding CA certificate. The secret must be in the **kubernetes.io/tls type secret keys + ca.crt key** format. If the attribute is set, the operator uses the certificate already set in the secret, otherwise it generates a new one.

The `ca.crt` key is mandatory, otherwise the Bank-Vaults components can't verify the Vault server certificate.

Default value: *""*

### CANamespaces

The list of namespaces where the generated CA certificate for Vault should be distributed.

Default value: *[]*

## Using the generated custom TLS certificate with vault-operator

To use an existing secret which contains the TLS certificate, define [existingTlsSecretName](#existingtlssecretname) in the Vault custom resource.

## Generate custom certificates with CFSSL

If you don't want to use the certificates generated by Helm or the Bank-Vaults operator, the easiest way to create a custom certificate for Bank-Vaults is using [CFSSL](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl).

The [https://github.com/bank-vaults/bank-vaults.dev/tree/main/content/docs/tls directory](https://github.com/bank-vaults/bank-vaults.dev/tree/main/content/docs/tls) holds a set of custom CFSSL configurations which are prepared for the Helm release name `vault` in the `default` namespace. Of course, you can put any other certificates into the Secret below, this is just an example.

1. Install [CFSSL](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl).
2. Create a CA:

    ```bash
    cfssl genkey -initca csr.json | cfssljson -bare ca
    ```

3. Create a server certificate:

    ```bash
    cfssl gencert -ca=ca.pem -ca-key=ca-key.pem -config=config.json -profile=server server.json | cfssljson -bare server
    ```

4. Put these certificates (and the server key) into a Kubernetes Secret:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic vault-tls --from-file=ca.crt=ca.pem --from-file=server.crt=server.pem --from-file=server.key=server-key.pem
    ```

5. Install the Vault instance:

    - With the chart which uses this certificate:

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install vault ../charts/vault --set tls.secretName=vault-tls
    ```

    - With the operator, create a Vault custom resource, and apply it:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f vault-cr.yaml
    ```

## Generate custom certificates with cert-manager

You can use the following [cert-manager custom resource](https://cert-manager.io) to generate a certificate for Bank-Vaults.

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: test-selfsigned
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
---
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-cert
spec:
  commonName: vault
  usages:
    - server auth
  dnsNames:
    - vault
    - vault.default
    - vault.default.svc
    - vault.default.svc.cluster.local
  ipAddresses:
    - 127.0.0.1
  secretName: selfsigned-cert-tls
  issuerRef:
    name: test-selfsigned
EOF
```
